when you guys have a problem and you
kind of find the middle of it
right like you find that core and you
discover it and start working on it all
the other crap will come crumbling down
it's just how it works i feel like i
have no personality and i am hollow
i feel afraid of talking to people in
reality or online i feel like i'm too
boring for them and have nothing
of value to offer sometimes i muster up
the courage to message people or respond
to their messages
but then i end up ghosting them for
weeks just because i don't want to end
up having a conversation
with them and them realizing i am boring
and then stopping
talking to me i feel like i will end up
alone
even if i do or don't want to talk to
people because if i do
they will realize i have no substance as
a person or that i
i'm just uninteresting or unfunny if i
don't then i will just be alone
in the end because i never talk to
anyone
i do have a few close friends and i talk
to them regularly
but they're just too close to realize
that i'm like this they tell me that i'm
interesting and funny but i think
only they find me that way it's like
when your mom tells you you're good
looking
when you know you aren't i think the
people i've been avoiding
talking to are really cool and would be
really great friends but i just don't
think i'm on their level as a person
how do i overcome this fear of rejection
great question
okay so hold on chat
dr k needs to think for a second okay so
first thing that we're going to do chat
is we're going to map out i'm going to
just show let me just do this with y'all
so i'm going to map out what this
person's mind looks like
i'm going to share with you all how i
understand the mind of this person
and i want to show you guys if you can
relate to this how to understand your
mind okay
what i'm going to ask you all to do is
go ahead and just
open up the reddit post on a side window
because i'm gonna have it here i'm gonna
go through line by line
and i'm gonna show you guys sort of how
this mind works okay
okay so let's start with this so the
first thing to understand
is that these are the core beliefs i am
too boring
sorry guys i am actually a medical
doctor which means that my handwriting
is terrible
um i'm not valuable right and so then
sometimes what this person actually does
is builds up courage and then reaches
out
and then over time they'll end up
ghosting okay i don't want to end up
having a conversation with them
and them realizing they
will realize okay
so what this means they will realize
that i'm not valuable so
you're pretending
or being an imposter okay so there's a
touch of that you'll see that
i need to talk
to other people or i
will be alone
so what i'm sort of noticing here
is that there's like a war between these
two parts
of the mind you guys see that so like
sometimes like this part wins
and then sometimes this part wins this
part usually ends up winning
okay so then they will realize my
close friends are
too close to realize
so that's why this isn't this is i'm
gonna put like a green arrow here
because
okay so we're gonna have our realization
oriented stuff this way i know this is
like this is why i wanted to think for a
second because i don't know exactly
where i'm going with this but
okay so this is the mom example okay
and then i think i have been avoiding
talking to
are really cool and could be really
great friends but i
just don't think i'm on their level as a
person
i'm not valuable so let's look at this
mind
so this over here is the sum squad
do you guys see how like everything here
that we're talking about
revolves around this complex
as long as this is here the rest of the
stuff
will actually just you know everything
here
all of this stuff will continue to
persist
so let's look at their current pattern
of behavior so they start here
they build up the courage okay they
reach out
and then the courage goes away they lose
the courage and then they end up
ghosting
so there's almost like there's a
so really what it is is courage
versus ghosting
okay and so this is a balance and on a
given day they can use willpower
to bolster courage right they can ignore
all of these thoughts and then what's
going to happen
is courage will be greater than the
tendency to ghost and disappear
and then but the problem is that
willpower is not sustainable so over
time the willpower will decrease
will cross this threshold and then
you'll ghost
and once you ghost you're gonna feel bad
and then as you feel bad you're gonna
reinforce this
y'all with me because now you feel
guilty you're like oh my god
i'm so pathetic i can't even i can't
even
you know like i can't even like text
people back oh my god
and so this thing then gets stronger it
levels up
y'all see that this cycle gg noobs
okay so now let's now these
are rationalizations they will realize
right like i can only put on a mask for
so long
and this doesn't even make any sense
rationally my close friends are too
close to realize how pathetic i am no
dude it's the opposite
right the closer someone is to you the
more they get your authentic self
so if you're close friends really
logically if your close friends
like you they're closer to the real you
that's not usually the mask
but if i were to say that to this person
they would argue with me until they were
blue in the face like i wouldn't get
anywhere
but do y'all see chat how these are
rationalizations
they're fears it doesn't make any sense
so this is like when your mind tells you
all kinds of stuff like don't bother
it's a waste of time no point
in trying to hang out if
they are going to
you ready for a chat here's the climax
find
out eventually that's what the mind
tells you right
these are all the rationalizations these
are the responses
of your mind this is what it tells you
to protect against rejection
because what this person is trying to
avoid is this cycle
right if i never reach out in the first
place
because every time i reach out i'm going
to end up ghosting then i'm going to
feel bad and this is going to get worse
so this is what you have to understand
reaching out just makes you feel bad
and that's why we don't do it you guys
see that
so then the mind says hey buddy the mind
is smart this is a smart person right
so these thoughts come over here and
they're like hey wait a minute
this is bad every time we reach out
we end up over here and we feel worse
about ourselves
so don't bother stop doing it stop doing
it
and then this is the last part so this
is like the the warring part right
we go over here which is like i need
people this isn't healthy
so the first thing to understand is that
you can tackle
any of these but i'd say that you can
tackle the
the cognitions and defense mechanisms if
you want to you can tackle this cycle if
you want to but i think this is where it
starts
and if this if you can cross this out
you can cross this out everything else
is going to come crumbling down
this is going to come crumbling down
this is going to come crumbling out
it'll all just
all come crumbling down okay so there's
one question that i have for you
if this person is watching or anyone who
relates to this
is where did you learn that you're not
valuable
because as long as that belief is held
all this crap is going to persist
do you all get that like you guys see
how like as we draw it out like you can
argue with the rationalizations
and the problem that people run into
with these things
is that they'll deal with any one of
those things right so if you you go to
someone you're like
how do i stop ghosting people and it's
like that is
such a weird adaptation of an adaptation
of an adaptation it's so far from the
root
like you can work on that and it is
valuable right so what we want to do is
we want to approach it from both ends
we want to approach it like in the
moment in symptomatic relief and root
cause relief
but i would start with this is where did
you learn
that all these other people are better
than you because you can even see it
okay it's it's subtle i mean actually
it's not subtle what am i saying
it's brightest day could be really great
friends but
i just don't think i'm on their level as
a person
why not when did you stop being on their
level as a person
what level are you on how did you get on
that level why are they on a different
level
right and so you can go back to like you
know this is we see the ahm god
you guys see the sense of self the
identity the identity
is like i'm a bad person and then
everything that we talked about in terms
of like the non-traditional narcissism
actually applies here too
right because they idealize all of their
friends because their ahamkar is active
so you look up to everyone oh my god
everyone's so awesome oh my god
so where does that come from and as you
start to dismantle that belief
okay we i saw an interesting post from
um a week ago
so i'll show you guys what this so my
surprising experience with coaching
um so they've been in the self
improvement online world with books and
all this for years
so like my first session started out
with some overviews and just thinking in
the basics of what coaching is
second session i was actually planning
on cutting things short i
really felt like i had a lot of
self-awareness from therapy and
self-improvement stuff
i know i have self-value problems i know
i have anxiety about work
when i clicked the call button on
discord to have my second session i had
a mental
i made a mental note to mention to my
coach that i was considering ending
after the session
i never planned on breaking down about
20 minutes later with emotion there was
such an intense some scar that i
always felt there but and had never
accessed
in the way that i had my coach asking my
coach was asking me seemingly basic
questions and reflecting
back to me the things i said i was so
sure initially that i knew
more about myself than anyone could and
it was a waste of time to do coaching
um i identified the sum scar and where
it came from and
blah blah blah okay and so you all can
read the rest of the post i think i
i just highlight this to illustrate a
couple of things the first is that
this is how a sum scar works okay blah
blah blah they got better
sure and so the the key thing though is
that like
once you hit it and it's kind of hard to
describe but like
once you find it like stuff starts
crumbling down yeah let me drop the link
sorry i i didn't mean
i just realized you know i just felt
something i felt
like it was arrogant to show something
about a success story from like our
program
so i felt like it was that was my own
ego actually getting in the way it
happened quick
and so i felt embarrassed to share how
this person had made progress which is
silly
yeah so exactly so osterholtz is saying
coaching it just works hashtag ad that's
actually exactly what i was trying to
avoid which is why i didn't read the
rest of the post
you guys see that it's interesting like
i just got my ego
happened so i didn't want to share
because i didn't want it to come across
i was thinking about what y'all were
thinking about
and i was like oh i don't want these
people to perceive me as a narcissist so
i have to stop reading this success
story
right so it happens quick the couple of
key points though is that when you guys
have a problem
and you kind of find the middle of it
right like you find that core and you
discover it and start working on it all
the other crap will come crumbling down
it's just how it works now a couple
things to remember
so this this sounds like a wonderful ad
for coaching which i actually need to
give you guys a big caveat about
this person is like oh my god i was not
expecting this this coach was
brilliant i can guarantee you every
coach out there who's watching the
stream
is currently terrified because they're
like
i don't know if i can do that are people
gonna be expecting this emotional
catharsis
after two sessions like i can't do that
because they can't do that
this is where i want you guys to
remember that this person has been doing
self-improvement work
and therapy and stuff for years so i
think it was right under the surface
right it was ready to come out and so i
don't think the coach was i'm sure the
coach was great
like they probably did a good job and at
the same time
you have to be careful about your
expectations because this person i think
was like
it's like right underneath the surface
so it'll come out relatively easily they
were ready for it
right so our coaches do a fantastic job
don't get me wrong
and at the same time i would be really
really careful about not expecting this
so just show up try to do the best that
you can
your coach is going to show up and try
to do the best that you can we have a
big policy here at hell it's not really
a policy it's like a
ethos that you know we just show up and
we do the best that we can on a given
day
that's our dharma our dharma is to show
i'm going to show up on stream
i'm going to talk is i'm going to try to
help as much peop as many people as i
can in two hours
and that's what we're going to do maybe
y'all will like it
maybe you won't am i going to have the
answers i don't really know
we're just going to show up and we're
going to give it everything we've got
and that's kind of and that's what i
encourage you all to do as well just
show up and give it everything you've
got